July 13, 1998, testing to see if the machine is working, now in San Antonio.
Okay, this is July 13.
I have the pleasure of interviewing Jerry Bowles, the president-elect of the Association of Former Students, and I believe you're from a class of 71.
Yes, sir.
Why did you attend A&M in the first place?
I didn't have a lot of choice, to tell you the truth.
I was very lucky.
I was sent to A&M by my uncle.
I had an uncle in Beaumont, Jerry Hogan.
I was his namesake.
He did not attend college, but he had a couple of nephews that went to A&M, and he just thought that an A&M man probably had a better chance at life, maybe, than some others did.
So, like I say, I was very fortunate.
He sent me to Texas A&M.
I respected him very much and I remember one day telling him that I had to date this girl and she was going to TU and I said, well, I might go up there.
He said, I don't think so.
Anyway, that's how I got there.
You had visited College Station before coming to?
Only one time.
I was with some people and they had some relative that lived in College Station.
We stopped in there to see them and their son, I don't even remember their names at this time, gave me a quick tour of A&M.
This was probably about 1965.
Did it make any impression on you?
Yeah, I knew I was going there.
So, you know, I was, the campus at that time was not, to me, near as impressive as it is now.
And I'm sure that has to do with a lot of the development there, plus maybe some maturity on my part.
All right.
Describe the trip then when you leave home to come to enroll.
How did you get there?
What did you bring?
Who brought you?
Well, we left Port Natchez.
And my mom and dad went, and my aunt and uncle went, the uncle and aunt that sent me in.
And I pretty much followed, I guess, my list of what to bring, you know, a couple collared shirts and some long pants and, you know, the regular things.
And I guess a suitcase full was probably what I had.
So in those days, you registered the day you got there.
There was a, I'm rambling here, but there was a brief orientation in the summer.
I went up for that and that's when they, I think it was primarily for the guys that were going in the Corps.
Signed you your outfit and all this kind of stuff.
So when I got there I knew which outfit I was going to.
Anyway, in those days you could drive into the Quad.
So we drove into the Quad and let me start over here.
We hadn't got to the Quad yet.
I had my list of what to do, so we went to Cebisa and registered.
I was going to be an engineer.
That didn't last too long, but anyway I did the register as an engineer.
We got the courses set up, went and bought the books, my uncle wrote the checks, and for some reason I remember it was about $600 we spent there in a few minutes.
So then they took me to, I guess from there we went to the Quad.
And I knew I was living in dorm 3, wasn't too sure where 3 was, but we found out quick enough.
And they deposited me at the west end of dorm 3 at the end door.
So I had my bag, and of course everybody was saying goodbye, which was kind of a tearful departure, and I'm sure that was pretty common with everyone.
My mother wouldn't get out of the car.
Anyway, I walked in the end door going three and I soon found out that was a senior privilege.
That's kind of how we got there.
Let's see, describe the campus as you remember it when you arrived, physically.
Well to me it was a huge place.
I came from a town of 8,000 people and at that time
If I remember the numbers correctly, there was about 9,500 students at A&M.
I was overwhelmed by the fact there were more people going to school there than there were in the town that I grew up in.
It was a big place and to me somewhat intimidating.
You learn your way around pretty quick, you know.
What were the landmarks that you kind of used as gauges?
I don't know.
I guess...
Some of our campusology dictated some of that, you know.
You had Sully over by the academic building.
As far as particular landmarks, I don't really remember.
The MSC, of course, was the central place on campus and you spent as much time there as you possibly could because as a fish you were fairly safe there.
We ate all our meals in Duncan.
You had basically three meals a day there.
and that was all paid for and really didn't have a lot of money to spend to be elsewhere.
Talk about what it was like to be a fish.
Oh, I wasn't prepared for it.
It was a pretty, I would say, awesome experience.
The outfit I was in was a large outfit.
It was A battery, A2.
We were in the 2nd Brigade.
And we had well over 100 people, probably 130, 140 in the outfit.
The fish class itself, we had 61 or 62 guys, so it was a large fish class.
And I knew a little bit about A&M before I got there, but not a whole lot.
Of course, I didn't know anything about military.
I hadn't grown up in any type of a military environment.
I remember sitting at, you know, you show up, you meet your CO, you're told we'll get a haircut, the one you came up with wasn't quite good enough.
So we got that done, and I remember sitting in the hallway, and I'm pretty sure it was the first night, there in our collared shirts, our long pants, our tie shoes, and belts and everything.
That's when they give us the old speech, you know, look left and look right, you know, one out of three of you is going to be here at the end of four years.
It was a pretty accurate statement.
I was always, what I want to say, I don't want to say reclusive or shy or whatever, but not real outgoing.
The thing about being in the Corps was it made you make friends, which is the best thing that ever happened to me.
All of a sudden you've got 40 or 50 or 60 of your best friends.
Everybody knows each other.
You've got a common bond.
Was your official lady a special, did he become a special friend?
No, the first fish old lady I had, he left school after our fish year.
My best friend though became my fish old lady at the beginning of the second semester.
His name is Keith Wingate, he lives in New Braunfels and we're like brothers.
And we lived together the rest of our time.
He got married at the end of our junior year, and he found a better roommate.
So anyway, the first one was kind of a fleeting relationship, and then Keith and I were the very best of friends.
Our wives are friends, our kids are friends.
Describe your freshman room physically.
What was in there?
What was it?
Pretty stark.
We had a bunk bed, we had a couple of desks and chairs and a sink.
That was it.
It was before they put the consoles in the rooms or the shelves in the rooms.
We didn't have telephones.
That year was the, I believe, the first year that the Duncan area dorms were air conditioned.
And they worked pretty good.
We were engineers, we always thought that we could soup them up and make them work better.
Well, we never did, but we worked on them a lot.
I'm sure the maintenance people really appreciated all that help we gave them.
But the rooms were stark.
The floors were tile, concrete walls, kind of a gray color.
I think pretty much the same as they are now, except they are spiffed up a little bit now.
We had no telephones in our rooms.
Did you have any decorations on the walls?
No, you had a bulletin board.
And as a freshman, there were certain things you could have on your bulletin board.
It was all regulated.
There was really nothing on the walls.
Describe a typical, from start to finish, a typical day, class day for you.
What time did you get up?
Where did you do whatever you did during that class day?
The first call was at 6 o'clock.
If you were not the whistle jock, you could probably
bag in until 6 and then you had like 15 minutes as I recall to get up and get dressed and be on the wall in the hall at 6.20 or 6.30.
And of course when that happened you were inspected by the sophomores through brass shoes, hair, and basically harassed for about 15 minutes.
They'd go over your campusology questions and all that stuff.
Then we'd walk out outside the formation, march to chow, try to eat.
Yep, you got harassed at all the meals.
Anyway, come back from chow, came back on your own.
We went to Duncan as an outfit.
The whole court marched to chow.
Come back to the dorms, and there were details.
Probably not unlike you might have at home today.
You know, things have to be cleaned up.
The hall had to be swept, the trash would put up and all that kind of thing.
Then every day your room had to be ready for inspection.
And then first class was 8 o'clock.
And as I recall class was pretty much all day.
You might have an hour break in the afternoon between classes.
There were no classes at noontimes.
Everybody came back to the Duncan area, to the quad.
There again, we'd get in our rooms, you have all your calls for chow, go through the same situation on the wall, go eat, come back, go to class in the afternoon.
Where did you spend, if you had an off hour, where did you spend that hour?
Normally the MSC, the coffee shop at the MSC.
That was the haven then?
That was the place.
That was the place to go.
You went to the library and went over there to take a nap.
Let's see, describe the library during your time physically.
Was it still just the Cushing?
Yes, sir.
It's nothing like it is now.
I don't know if I can properly describe it.
It had places in there for us to go study.
It had cubicles or whatever you call them.
I spent a lot of time over there.
I thought I was studying.
I'm not sure I really was.
I was probably hiding out.
In the afternoon, if you had some free time mid-afternoon on, what did you do?
As a freshman, if you could get a bag in pass, you'd hit the rack, go sleep.
Otherwise, there wasn't much dead time during the day.
It seemed like there was always, it seemed like I always lucked out and I got a late lab.
And I'd get through, a lab would be a two hour lab, say from three to five.
There wasn't a whole lot of down time.
If there was, if you had a buddy that had a car, we might run off to Brian.
There was always errands to do as far as getting the cleaning done.
you're dry cleaning for your uniforms and all that kind of stuff.
All right, then in the evening, you march to chow again?
Yes, sir.
Then after supper, let's call it, and use that old-fashioned word, after supper, what was the routine?
Well, after supper, you know, you try to hook it on back to the dorm.
And here again, I'm talking, you know, as a freshman.
And, you know, all the upperclassmen, they said they're lined up out there, you know, to do their job.
and get back to the dorm and hopefully you could get right on to your hole.
I mean, you didn't have a room until your juniors called a hole before you encountered the upperclassmen in the hall.
Didn't always happen.
Did your very best to stay out of the band dorm and didn't want to get called the band dorm.
That was a bad place to go.
And we were always pretty lucky.
We lived on either the first stoop or second stoop, so you could probably get in.
The four fish that lived on the fourth stoop, they got caught every outfit on the way up and back.
And then CQ started at 7, 7.30?
7 or 7.30?
7.30.
Yeah, 7.30 to 10.30.
And it was quite an honor.
I mean, you had every opportunity to study if you had to go to the library or whatever.
They left you along there seeking.
Describe the routine for freshmen in the dining hall, in the chow hall.
Well, you ate your square meals.
You sat on the front six inches of your chair, had to have your fish bites.
They sat you in there and staggered you between sophomores and juniors.
The fish at the end of the table on the aisle side, they were the hot corner.
They actually rammed the table.
Everything was family style.
Everything came to us in bowls and serving dishes.
And so, you know, the seniors are serve first, the juniors are sophomores, and then you fish.
We actually had a lot of fun in Duncan.
There was a lot of harassment, but when you're at a table and you've got the mixed classes, the juniors, they've just found newfound freedom.
I mean, they're the white belts.
They're sort of the studs on campus.
And they kind of relax, you know.
They'd have fun with the fish.
Sophomores really couldn't do that.
But we had a lot of fun.
We raised a lot of hell with them.
Describe some of the pranks or jokes or tricks that you know about from the dining hall.
The ones that we could talk about?
Yeah, yeah.
As a freshman, you wore your bib or your napkin in your collar, like a child would, I guess.
Upperclassmen, they always tucked theirs into their belts.
So it was always kind of a neat deal, and they were all paper, to get some freshman to somehow crawl under the table and go down and light this guy's bib.
People weren't hurt.
Nobody was ever hurt to my knowledge.
All the cleaning fluid and stuff in those uniforms, I'm surprised somebody didn't burn it up.
That was always pretty entertaining.
Usually put everybody at the table that clued into it except the guy who was getting burned because you had to have the little boy come through there.
There's always something going on there.
Any other dining hall?
We had a few.
We'd call them deal fights or food fights with rolls.
We had an old boy, it's a flight of the buzzard.
I don't know if you've heard about the buzzard or not, but there was an outfit there, F2, a fox company.
They'd have a fish and he'd go around as a buzzard.
The guy that did it when we were freshmen was a guy named Roger Walk, W-A-A-K, and the guy was just hilarious.
And the point is, you're looking for somebody to puke on them.
This stuff you probably don't want.
No, no, that's good.
So he'd go over there, and of course this upperclassman or whoever was picked out to get this, and then he'd get on out of there.
And the upperclassman was not aware that he had been selected?
No, he wasn't aware he'd been selected.
Everybody knew somebody was selected, but they didn't know who it was.
What about chow hall slang for the various items of food and beverage?
Well, I mentioned a while ago that bread was called deal.
You'd have a deal fight or a bread fight.
The iced tea was...
There was stud, the water was sky, the meat was bull neck.
Of course the potatoes were spuds.
There's some others that are unprintable.
Ketchup?
Ketchup was blood.
Gravy?
Gravy, gravy, gravy.
What was baby?
Baby was mustard.
Mustard, that's right.
Dessert?
Kush.
All desserts were Kush.
All dessert was Kush.
Let's see.
Milk, milk, tea, coffee.
They did have a nickname.
I've never heard of corn for coffee.
Dope.
Coffee was dope.
You couldn't say that today.
We didn't know what dope was.
Beans, peas, corn.
Peas were artillery?
I believe you're right.
Is that right?
I believe that's right.
I think that's right.
I don't remember if there was a name for Gravy or not.
I'm sure there was, but I don't remember what it was.
Were you one of those that forgot when you went home with your family and used some dining hall slang?
I tried not to.
I was going to ask you, because I've heard of where that happened, and I thought there has to be a good story occasionally about that.
It was funny, though, you know, sometimes you'd bring somebody home with you, and they...
They might slip every now and then, but I was pretty cautious around my mother and my sisters, and I'd tell my dad some stuff like that, you know, but I didn't talk like that.
Your outfit, did it have a nickname?
It's called A Battery.
But it wasn't like Spider D or anything like that?
No, sure, no.
We lived in the same dorm as Spider D. What made your outfit special to you, as you think back?
I don't know, there's a lot of things.
We were not the most military group on campus.
We had a bunch of good guys and we could get the job done.
We also had a good time and over the years, or over the year we actually got to be, we had some good friends that were sophomores, juniors, seniors, people that you could talk to.
Our fish class, we really bonded.
We got to be close friends.
If you look on, let's see.
Aggie, classmate.
Very lean classmate.
Paul Thompson, classmate.
Very good.
Stan Garner, classmate.
These are all people that I talk to all the time.
I don't know if using the term brothers is right or not, but right now we have a friend in Houston who's very sick and we've all been kind of monitoring that situation.
A good bunch of people.
And we got to know their parents.
In those days the parents didn't come to, at least the ones I was familiar with,
Didn't come up to all the ball games and do all the things that a lot of parents do today.
Probably a lot of it was economics, a lot of it was just hotel space.
People just didn't travel then like they do now.
But we'd go home with our friends on the weekends and you'd get to know their mom and dad and their brothers and their sisters.
In general, what kind of families were they from in terms of economics and what kind of towns?
It varied.
Most of the guys that I ran around with came pretty much from working class families.
The guys from East Texas, their dads normally worked in the refineries, the chemical plants.
In most cases, it was kind of the old school.
The mothers did not work.
They took care of the homes.
And they were first generation college students.
Their parents were not college in most cases.
Most of them.
Most of them were first generation.
We also had some guys who came from some very well-to-do families.
In most of those cases, I look back, most of their dads had gone to AEM.
But they were just pretty much regular guys.
I don't remember anybody flaunting their situation at all.
During your four years, can you describe some good bull events that you knew about any time during your student days?
Good pranks, jokes, tricks?
I've got to think on that.
Let me do some thinking on that.
Let's go ahead then.
How did life change for you as a sophomore?
Well, it was better, but it wasn't as good as we thought it was going to be.
I like that.
That's good.
We were able to get, I guess, a three-by-six rug, and that's what we dressed our room up with.
You still couldn't put anything on the wall.
You had your bulletin board, but you had some authority, a little bit of authority, or thought you did.
You weren't the bottom rung any longer.
In a battery, in my outfit, life as a sophomore was pretty darn good compared to a lot of the other outfits.
And I don't know exactly why.
I think it had to do with our upperclassmen.
We have a pretty good bunch of upperclassmen.
There's a bunch of the upperclassmen I still keep in touch with.
Now, symbolically, emotionally, when did you become a sophomore?
When did you realize, I'm no longer a fish?
I guess at...
at Final Review, I would say.
It takes a while for it to soak in, but you know, once Final Review was over, we came back around with our black braid on, you know.
See, in those days, at the Final Review, you still had finals.
So, Final Review was on a Saturday, and then the finals were the following week.
Went back to the dorm and everybody's pretty equal.
Everybody's calling you by first name and this, that, and that.
Of course, we were all cramming because we had great problems.
And we had to make some good final scores.
Do you remember anybody saying anything or doing anything that made you feel you now were accepted?
No, I can't say that I did.
All right, let's see.
Memorable teachers, advisors, counselors during your four years?
Who were the special people?
You better let me think on that one, too.
Because there have to be some people that were special.
The instructors or professors that I enjoyed the most were our B Law, Business Law teachers.
There was Judge Stewart.
Real red faced old boy, country attorney type fella.
And Jim Dozier, James Dozier.
Mr. Dozier had a few fingers missing on one hand and to make his points he'd always raise his hand up.
Did he have a nickname?
I've never heard of him.
Not that I recall.
Like Judge Stewart did.
Just known as Mr. Dozier.
Looking back, I think he was also pretty involved in the Bryan College Station community.
I think he was a council member.
But those attorneys, they're so articulate, and Stewart was especially colorful.
Judge Stewart would have his wife come in when we had exams, and I don't know if she was- it was a big class, because a lot of people wanted to get in that class.
You know, if you had a question or something, call her over and ask her this question.
She was about as racy as he was.
What about English, math?
Remember any?
Well, you've got to realize this.
I wasn't the world's best student.
And I had a history prof, Dr. Huntberger, and she's still there.
I always enjoyed her class.
She was very, very good.
I was in her class when I needed to make some great points.
And I've always been, I wouldn't say a fan, but I've always been interested in history, and this was American history.
And I enjoyed her class a lot.
English, math?
I don't remember the professors.
Science?
What about in the Corps?
Were there some special advisors, counselors?
Not that I was involved.
MSC?
I wasn't involved.
Most everything I did was a core in Aggieland.
Alright, what about Aggieland?
Was there any... A fellow that we worked with over there, and he is still there, Lane Stevenson.
He was a director of student publications, but I don't remember exactly what his title was.
What was he like to work with?
He was great.
You know, he was a Marine.
And he helped us a lot and there was a lady there in the Aggieland office, her name was Prehoda.
Mrs. Prehoda, Barbara?
I think that's right.
Yeah, she was real sweet.
She helped us a lot.
All right, let's see.
Let's go back to class.
Describe what you, as you look back on it, what was the expected decorum for you as a student in class?
How did you all behave in class?
Well, it was much different than high school.
As far as behavior, everybody was a gentleman.
I don't remember any cutting up, and I don't remember any disrespect to the teachers, professors, instructors at all.
One thing that you could do in college, that you could do in high school, if you thought you had this lecture down, you'd close your book and leave.
And some people did.
In those days,
smoke during a quiz, or during a test.
And that always impressed me, so I started smoking.
And I didn't do that very long.
Do you remember any pranks during class?
I'd be surprised if you did.
Not during class.
I don't know of any.
No, it seemed, you know, some of the goofy things that would happen and they weren't pranks and they weren't intentional, like you'd have a chemistry lab.
and whatever you're working on would turn your brass black or something.
And you usually got a nail going back to the quad because of that.
But I don't remember to remember anything.
Everybody pretty much behaved themselves.
When you needed to talk to a faculty member outside of class, were they available?
Very available.
Yes, sir.
Always.
It was your initiative, you know.
But they were always available, always very helpful.
I do remember early on, it's my first semester fish year and my English teacher, and I do not remember her name, but she's a very nice lady.
I was a pretty good English student in high school.
I never could diagram a sentence or do all that stuff, but I could write.
I could write a 500-word essay or any of that.
So I did one, and I made a C on the Derm thing, and I didn't understand.
I thought I had at least a B or maybe an A. I thought it was a good one.
Went over and visited with her, and she was the first one I ever talked to, and I guess that's why I remember the meeting.
We went through a lot of things, and she said, you know, I said, well, you know, it's a big step in college, high school.
She said, yes, it is, but she'll be fine.
But as far as, if you needed help and needed to talk to somebody, they were very valuable.
During your four years, did you ever have any financial problems that you needed somebody to help with?
I was fortunate, very fortunate.
My uncle paid for all of my education.
Also, he'd give me a small allowance.
And I had jobs on campus.
Describe those, what they were and how much they paid and so forth.
As the Aggieland assistant editor and the Aggieland editor, if I remember right, it was something like $40 or $50 a month.
We put a lot of time in over there, but that was pretty good spending money.